*Selectors
    A CSS selector selects the HTML element(s) you want to style.

*We can divide CSS selectors into five categories:

    Simple selectors (select elements based on name, id, class)
    Combinator selectors (select elements based on a specific relationship between them)
    Pseudo-class selectors (select elements based on a certain state)
    Pseudo-elements selectors (select and style a part of an element)
    Attribute selectors (select elements based on an attribute or attribute value)

*The CSS element Selector
    The element selector selects HTML elements based on the element name.
*The CSS id Selector
    The id selector uses the id attribute of an HTML element to select a specific element.
    The id of an element is unique within a page, so the id selector is used to select one unique element!

To select an element with a specific id, write a hash (#) character, followed by the id of the element.

*The CSS class Selector
    The class selector selects HTML elements with a specific class attribute.

To select elements with a specific class, write a period (.) character, followed by the class name.

*The CSS Universal Selector
    The universal selector (*) selects all HTML elements on the page.

*The CSS Grouping Selector
    The grouping selector selects all the HTML elements with the same style definitions. 

*When a browser reads a style sheet, it will format the HTML document according to the information in the style sheet.

Three Ways to Insert CSS
There are three ways of inserting a style sheet:

    External CSS
    Internal CSS
    Inline CSS

*External CSS
    With an external style sheet, you can change the look of an entire website by changing just one file!

    Each HTML page must include a reference to the external style sheet file inside the <link> element, inside the head section.       

*Internal CSS
    An internal style sheet may be used if one single HTML page has a unique style.

    The internal style is defined inside the <style> element, inside the head section.

*Inline CSS
    An inline style may be used to apply a unique style for a single element.

    To use inline styles, add the style attribute to the relevant element. The style attribute can contain any CSS property.

*Multiple Style Sheets
    If some properties have been defined for the same selector (element) in different style sheets, the value from the last read style sheet will be used.   
*inline style has higher priority as compare to internal and external      

*CSS Comments
    CSS comments are not displayed in the browser, but they can help document your source code.

*CSS Colors
    Colors are specified using predefined color names, or RGB, HEX, HSL, RGBA, HSLA values.  

    *An RGB color value represents RED, GREEN, and BLUE light sources.
        RGB Value       In CSS, a color can be specified as an RGB value, using this formula:
        rgb(red, green, blue)
        Each parameter (red, green, and blue) defines the intensity of the color between 0 and 255.
        For example, rgb(255, 0, 0) is displayed as red, because red is set to its highest value (255) and the others are set to 0.
        To display black, set all color parameters to 0, like this: rgb(0, 0, 0).
        To display white, set all color parameters to 255, like this: rgb(255, 255, 255).  
    *RGBA Value
    RGBA color values are an extension of RGB color values with an alpha channel - which specifies the opacity for a color.
        An RGBA color value is specified with:
        rgba(red, green, blue, alpha)
        The alpha parameter is a number between 0.0 (fully transparent) and 1.0 (not transparent at al      

    *CSS HEX Colors
    A hexadecimal color is specified with: #RRGGBB, where the RR (red), GG (green) and BB (blue) hexadecimal integers specify the components of the color.
        HEX Value
        In CSS, a color can be specified using a hexadecimal value in the form:
        #rrggbb
        Where rr (red), gg (green) and bb (blue) are hexadecimal values between 00 and ff (same as decimal 0-255).
        For example, #ff0000 is displayed as red, because red is set to its highest value (ff) and the others are set to the lowest value (00).
        To display black, set all values to 00, like this: #000000.
        To display white, set all values to ff, like this: #ffffff.  

    3 Digit HEX Value
        Sometimes you will see a 3-digit hex code in the CSS source.
        The 3-digit hex code is a shorthand for some 6-digit hex codes.
        The 3-digit hex code has the following form:
        #rgb
        Where r, g, and b represent the red, green, and blue components with values between 0 and f.
        The 3-digit hex code can only be used when both the values (RR, GG, and BB) are the same for each component. So, if we have #ff00cc, it can be written like this: #f0c.    

*CSS Backgrounds
    The CSS background properties are used to add background effects for elements.
    In these chapters, you will learn about the following CSS background properties:
        background-color
        background-image
        background-repeat
        background-attachment
        background-position
        background (shorthand property)

Opacity / Transparency
    The opacity property specifies the opacity/transparency of an element. It can take a value from 0.0 - 1.0. The lower value, the more transparent:
 
*CSS Background Image
    CSS background-image
    The background-image property specifies an image to use as the background of an element.
By default, the image is repeated so it covers the entire element.

*CSS background-repeat
    By default, the background-image property repeats an image both horizontally and vertically.
    Some images should be repeated only horizontally or vertically, or they will look strange, like this:
    If the image above is repeated only horizontally (background-repeat: repeat-x;)
    To repeat an image vertically, set background-repeat: repeat-y;
    CSS background-repeat: no-repeat
    Showing the background image only once is also specified by the background-repeat property

*CSS background-attachment
    The background-attachment property specifies whether the background image should scroll or be fixed (will not scroll with the rest of the page):    

*CSS background - Shorthand property
To shorten the code, it is also possible to specify all the background properties in one single property. This is called a shorthand property.

Instead of writing:

body {
  background-color: #ffffff;
  background-image: url("img_tree.png");
  background-repeat: no-repeat;
  background-position: right top;
}
You can use the shorthand property background:

Example
Use the shorthand property to set the background properties in one declaration:

body {
  background: #ffffff url("img_tree.png") no-repeat right top;
}
When using the shorthand property the order of the property values is:

background-color
background-image
background-repeat
background-attachment
background-position

*CSS Borders
    The CSS border properties allow you to specify the style, width, and color of an element's border.

CSS Border Style
The border-style property specifies what kind of border to display.

The following values are allowed:

dotted - Defines a dotted border
dashed - Defines a dashed border
solid - Defines a solid border
double - Defines a double border
groove - Defines a 3D grooved border. The effect depends on the border-color value
ridge - Defines a 3D ridged border. The effect depends on the border-color value
inset - Defines a 3D inset border. The effect depends on the border-color value
outset - Defines a 3D outset border. The effect depends on the border-color value
none - Defines no border
hidden - Defines a hidden border    

CSS Border Width
    The border-width property specifies the width of the four borders.

The width can be set as a specific size (in px, pt, cm, em, etc) or by using one of the three pre-defined values: thin, medium, or thick:


CSS Border - Individual Sides
    From the examples on the previous pages, you have seen that it is possible to specify a different border for each side.

In CSS, there are also properties for specifying each of the borders (top, right, bottom, and left):

CSS Border - Shorthand Property
    Like you saw in the previous page, there are many properties to consider when dealing with borders.

    To shorten the code, it is also possible to specify all the individual border properties in one property.

The border property is a shorthand property for the following individual border properties:

border-width
border-style (required)
border-color

CSS Rounded Borders
    The border-radius property is used to add rounded borders to an element.

CSS Margins
    Margins are used to create space around elements, outside of any defined borders.  With CSS, you have full control over the margins. There are properties for setting the margin for each side of an element (top, right, bottom, and left).

Margin - Individual Sides
CSS has properties for specifying the margin for each side of an element:

margin-top
margin-right
margin-bottom
margin-left

Margin - Shorthand Property
To shorten the code, it is possible to specify all the margin properties in one property.

*The margin property is a shorthand property for the following individual margin properties:
    margin-top
    margin-right
    margin-bottom
    margin-left
So, here is how it works:*

*If the margin property h   as four values:

    margin: 25px 50px 75px 100px;
    top margin is 25px
    right margin is 50px
    bottom margin is 75px
    left margin is 100px

*Margin Collapse
    Top and bottom margins of elements are sometimes collapsed into a single margin that is equal to the largest of the two margins.

    This does not happen on left and right margins! Only top and bottom margins!    

*CSS Padding
    Padding is used to create space around an element's content, inside of any defined borders.    


//Important
The CSS max-width property is used to set the maximum width of an element.    

The problem with the <div> above occurs when the browser window is smaller than the width of the element (500px). The browser then adds a horizontal scrollbar to the page.

Using max-width instead, in this situation, will improve the browser's handling of small windows.

The CSS Box Model
    In CSS, the term "box model" is used when talking about design and layout.

    The CSS box model is essentially a box that wraps around every HTML element. It consists of: margins, borders, padding, and the actual content.
CSS Outline
An outline is a line that is drawn around elements, OUTSIDE the borders, to make the element "stand out".

CSS has the following outline properties:

outline-style
outline-color
outline-width
outline-offset
outline
Note: Outline differs from borders! Unlike border, the outline is drawn outside the element's border, and may overlap other content. Also, the outline is NOT a part of the element's dimensions; the element's total width and height is not affected by the width of the outline.


CSS Outline Style
The outline-style property specifies the style of the outline, and can have one of the following values:

dotted - Defines a dotted outline
dashed - Defines a dashed outline
solid - Defines a solid outline
double - Defines a double outline
groove - Defines a 3D grooved outline
ridge - Defines a 3D ridged outline
inset - Defines a 3D inset outline
outset - Defines a 3D outset outline
none - Defines no outline
hidden - Defines a hidden outline    

*CSS Outline Offset
    The outline-offset property adds space between an outline and the edge/border of an element. The space between an element and its outline is transparent.

*CSS text
    -text color
    -text alignment
    -

*Text Alignment
The text-align property is used to set the horizontal alignment of a text.

A text can be left or right aligned, centered, or justified.

The following example shows center aligned, and left and right aligned text (left alignment is default if text direction is left-to-right, and right alignment is default if text direction is right-to-left).

//Important
text-align:justify
When the text-align property is set to "justify", each line is stretched so that every line has equal width, and the left and right margins are straight (like in magazines and newspapers):

*Text Direction
The direction and unicode-bidi properties can be used to change the text direction of an element:

Example
p {
  direction: rtl;
  unicode-bidi: bidi-override;
}

*Add a Decoration Line to Text
The text-decoration-line property is used to add a decoration line to text.

Tip: You can combine more than one value, like overline and underline to display lines both over and under a text.
EX-
h1 {
  text-decoration-line: overline;
}

h2 {
  text-decoration-line: line-through;
}

h3 {
  text-decoration-line: underline;
}

p {
  text-decoration-line: overline underline;
}

*CSS Text Shadow
Text Shadow
The text-shadow property adds shadow to text.

In its simplest use, you only specify the horizontal shadow (2px) and the vertical shadow (2px).

The z-index Property
When elements are positioned, they can overlap other elements.

The z-index property specifies the stack order of an element (which element should be placed in front of, or behind, the others).

An element can have a positive or negative stack order:

z-index only works on positioned elements (position: absolute, position: relative, position: fixed, or position: sticky) and flex items (elements that are direct children of display: flex elements).